foreign
I'm Erica Schultz I'm the president of
field operations at confluent and look
forward to spending a little bit of time
with you today we're going to talk about
scaling Revenue in 2022 what's the same
and what's different and I look forward
to diving into it
so a little bit more me and it is great
to be back at saster just great to be
back at in-person events I don't know
about you but I find it really
energizing and so it's great to be here
a little bit about me I've proudly spent
27 years in this amazing Enterprise
technology industry I spent the first
almost 17 years of my career at Oracle
Corporation where I started as an SDR
and I've spent the last 10 years in
growth tech companies I'm currently a
confluent as I mentioned coming up on
three years with confluent and prior I
spent a little more than five years with
New Relic so I'd like to think I've seen
a few movies I've learned a few lessons
many of the lessons learned the hard way
and some of the things we'll talk about
today are things that on the one hand
you know we've learned in some of these
organizations that are a little more at
scale than a lot of the companies that
are represented here today at saster but
at the same time I think that many of
the strategies I'm going to talk about
I'd put in the category of I wish we
focused on them sooner and so I think
they're really applicable to companies
of lots of sizes in Scales so let's
start Dive In
we are going to talk about five
strategies for scaling Revenue in 2022
and number one I always like to start
with the customer I'm a big believer in
everything that we do we should start
customer back and really Orient
ourselves around who is our customer
what are we solving for what problems
are they solving and I'm a big believer
that you can make it a habit to rethink
your customer and Persona understanding
and almost constantly challenge yourself
and challenge your c-suite do you truly
have a deep understanding of who your
customer is what that ideal customer
profile might look like who are the
personas within your customer that you
serve and where to each of those
personas show up during the engagement
cycle so I'm a big believer in making it
a habit to rethink your understanding of
your your customer and your personas
and I think that there's an incredible
unlock that can happen when your c-suite
and the functions in the company are
truly aligned around a common
understanding of who your customer is
and who the personas are if you think
about it when you can truly align your
product development efforts with your
marketing demand gen and messaging
efforts and with your selling motions
when you can truly align around a common
understanding of that Target customer
and specific personas there's an unlock
that's possible particularly in moments
like this where companies of all stages
and scales are looking to get more
efficient and we'll talk more about that
but I think it's really powerful and so
how can you get a deeper understanding
of your customers and your personas well
we have we all have a wealth of data and
insight at our fingertips it's about how
we're taking in that signal we have all
kinds of Market information about what
other Technologies our customers are
using how they engage with our various
marketing platforms how they engage in a
sales cycle we have digital and we have
human signal we have customer sorry we
have product instrumentation to
understand how our customers are
engaging with our products we have
support interactions we have partner
ecosystem interactions we have so much
data and insights available it's about
how do we take it in how do we build the
practices to really take it in and
deepen our understanding of our
customers and our Persona so that's
really number one start with your
customer work customer back and with
that deep understanding there's an
unlock that can really help you scale
Revenue
now related to that let's talk about the
actual customer experience
I'm a huge believer in designing a
modern and connected customer experience
because let's face it that's what our
customers expect now even if we're in
Enterprise technology and Enterprise
cloud services our customers have been
trained by all of the great consumer
Technologies out there so their
expectation when they engage with our
Enterprise Solutions is that we're
offering a very modern and connected
customer experience and this is really
about if if in the last slide we talked
about how do we make sure we have a deep
understanding of our customers and
specific personas designing the
experience is really about how do we
apply that into a great experience for
our customers both digital and human for
example starting with do you have a
clear point of view on what your
customer journey is at what moment and
how do your customers discover you what
problem are they trying to solve who is
that person who's coming to First
interact with your product or with your
company and what problem are they trying
to solve and if you have a clear
understanding of that customer Journey
are there multiple versions of it can
customers be go on slightly different
permutations of that Journey maybe
they're coming at it from at different
points for example I'll share with you a
little bit how we think about this at
confluent in confluent for those that
aren't familiar with us we are a
real-time data streaming platform and
are the founders of confluent were the
original authors of what is now the open
source Apache Kafka and so we when we
think about our customer Journey there's
kind of two flavors even in just this
discovery and experimentation phase we
might encounter a customer for the first
time or a prospect who actually is
really far along in their data streaming
Journey because they've built Mission
critical production applications on open
source Apache Kafka so when that's the
case we need to know that because the
way that we're going to engage with them
what they're coming to confluent to
discover and experiment with and learn
is very different if they're already
familiar with what's possible with a
real-time data streaming architecture
in contrast we also might have
developers or Architects come to us in
that Discovery and experimentation stage
who are not familiar with data streaming
maybe they're building an application
for the first time and they're not
familiar with a real-time data
architecture so they're learning about
that for the first time so it's on us to
think about how can we offer an
experience to both of those first-time
confluent visitors that's in tune with
what they're looking for
and that needs to follow on to the
onboarding and activation stage how
might we onboard or activate again
someone who's Just For the First Time
learning about real-time data streaming
and the power of it versus how do we
onboard and activate a very
sophisticated
individual who might be running as I say
kind of production Mission critical apps
on a data streaming platform using open
source that individual is going to want
to know different things about how can
you migrate my production applications
and how do I need to think about roles
responsibilities on my team if we move
to a fully managed cloud service versus
running this ourselves on open source so
some some really different experiences
that we need to offer is I think about
the customer experience through
different stages of the sales cycle and
we'll talk a little bit about
product-led growth and Enterprise sales
in a few minutes but I think about that
balance between the usage model and the
subscription model and one question to
ask at that stage is do we know what's
the right amount of usage in a
product-led model before we start
pitching the customer on a subscription
that's an important question to ask is
we think about creating new value and
driving expansion with that customer do
we know how that customer derives value
from what they're already using from us
do we understand how they're measuring
value in their current use case and
therefore how we should think about
positioning the next one for expansion
and then finally connecting that whole
experience to the ultimate outcome that
we want which is is we'd like to say
customer love and advocacy how do we
create Advocates from our customers and
when is the appropriate Moment In the
Journey to ask for that for ask for them
to to give back to the company in that
way and really speak on your behalf as a
public reference or in the community
um but I think thinking about this
entire customer experience is needing to
be very modern and kind of the
combination of digital and human touch
points and very connected and contextual
so that we're taking different types of
customers and of course personas on
slightly different Journeys that's a
real unlock is we're thinking about how
to scale Revenue because we can actually
accelerate the customer adoption and
expansion phases which of course will
drive the Top Line
the third point that I want to make is
around the power of the the multiplier
effect of combining product-led growth
with Enterprise sales I think this is
such a benefit that is you know
potential for so many different
companies and I find that a lot of
companies and maybe you can relate to
this ask the question of is it either or
are we product LED or are we Enterprise
sales and I'm a big believer that many
companies if not most offerings can be
suited to both and the trick is to think
about okay who are the personas that
we're serving and might one model or the
other be a better fit for that specific
Persona again if I think about in our
world we um developers are a key Persona
Architects as well as economic buyers
who might be Business Leaders business
unit leaders who own different functions
within a business
well the developers and The Architects
love a product-led model they prefer it
certainly in initial stages to have a
great product experience that they can
discover and adopt and get usage and
value from on their own in many cases
they prefer not to have to interact with
humans just give me a great product
experience with great in-product
documentation maybe engagement if I need
it and that's really well suited for
that for that Persona on the flip side
if you think about the economic buyer
and what what he or she is solving for
maybe they're thinking about how your
solution is a fit across the Enterprise
and so they're going to want to
understand better your security posture
how easy it is to operate in an
Enterprise environment maybe you know
you know cross charging and billing and
that sort of thing and they're going to
want to look at all those Enterprise
capabilities which aren't always best
demonstrated in a product-led engagement
so that's maybe where your Enterprise
sales team comes in and you can bring in
other resources to prove out the
security and the operability and the
scalability and bring customer
references to the table Etc so when you
think about product lab and Enterprise
LED I'm a huge believer it's not either
or I would encourage you to think about
can our team can our customers benefit
from both are there different personas
who might be served better by one or the
other
I would also say
you can start with either one and grow
into the other at New Relic my prior
company for example the company started
with a very product LED model serving
developers and as the company got more
into the mid market and the Enterprise
and saw bigger expansion opportunities
with customers they saw an opportunity
to complement the product LED engagement
with Enterprise sales
and conversely at confluent we started
very much on the Enterprise sales side
because we were partnering with
companies as I mentioned before who had
already built production Mission
critical apps on open source Kafka so we
immediately needed to engage with those
Architects and economic buyers to prove
out why move to a fully managed cloud
service and then we introduced several
years into our existence as a company we
introduced product-led growth we
introduced a self-serve model and a
pay-as-you-go offering for our customers
so you can start from either direction
and come at an ad to your portfolio but
I really would think about you know can
you serve different personas more
optimally with with both models last
couple things I'll say about the
benefits of both
um you know product LED I think that the
promise of product-led growth is
ultimately it leads to more
effective and efficient lands and
customer acquisition that can really
help your overall cost of go to market
down the line again we talked about how
preferred It Is by many profiles you
know many different personas so that's
something to think about and then
conversely I think you know one of the
things we learned at New Relic for
example when we introduced Enterprise
sales was we went from customers being a
little bit Anonymous in the product LED
world to all of a sudden being we're in
relationship with these customers and we
got really rich feedback from those
Enterprise customers again through a lot
of human interactions that complemented
the digital interactions so we learned a
lot and that was extremely beneficial so
think about you know the payoffs of both
and can you serve different personas in
your base with both models
all right there's a lot of buzz in the
industry right now about
consumption-based models there's you
know what we think of it as maybe the
third era of software
um pricing and Licensing and billing
models if the first was kind of the
on-premise software license and support
Perpetual licenses the second with the
Advent of SAS was subscription models
now in the last few years and really
pioneered by the cloud service providers
consumption models have been gaining a
lot of traction so let's talk about them
and I I will come to this in a minute
but I my point here is really around
creating the consumption-based culture
in your company that it's more than just
a pricing strategy but first let's talk
a little bit about what it is well a
consumption-based model it really allows
you to recognize customer Revenue based
on actual usage versus the subscription
commit versus a
committed contract and kind of the
promise of usage and so a lot of people
are big fans of the consumption model
because it brings your Revenue
recognition much closer to actual
customer usage and let's assume that
your customers usage indicates value
realized so that's great you want to
bring your your Revenue recognition even
closer to actual customer usage I know
someone who likes to say it's a more
intellectually honest model and I agree
with that so I think there's a lot of
advantages
it can be tricky because it represents a
big change and again I think many
organizations think of this as kind of a
pricing model change or a billing model
change but we have learned and I have
learned over the years it's actually so
much more than that it really takes a
cultural change and kind of a mind set
change to embrace a consumption model
within your company let me talk a little
bit more about that well first off there
are implications for almost every
function in the company and you can see
them listed out here on the slide if
product goes from designing products
that are sold and somebody implements
them now they have to think about how
can a customer self-serve and adopt and
usability you know your marketing Focus
might go from marketing demand gen to
plg and customer marketing your sales
Focus I know certainly over the years
I've built a lot of a lot of muscle
memory around the bookings forecast in
those subscription contracts those are
the big wins and then you have to
retrain your brain to really focus on no
the big win is actual customer usage
that's a big shift and then we could go
on and on about the areas of focus but
not only does every function in the
company have to think differently in
these two models but actually they all
have to come together in a really
powerful way is we've been in
introducing even more of a consumption
model at confluent is part of the cloud
managed service offering that we have
we've learned a lot along the way and
the commentary from the team members
who've been involved from all of the
functions listed out here and more
they've said wow we've really had to
gain kind of empathy and appreciation
for what the next function next to me
does because if I'm building the product
then now I really need to think about I
need to understand billing and revrec
because I've got to build billing
capabilities directly into my product
and there's a lot of things I didn't
know before or maybe if I'm focused on
the usability and self-serve ability of
the product previously I was kind of
thinking that someone in you know
solution engineering or customer success
might help our customers through that
now I need to make sure that our
customers can kind of consume on their
own or for example maybe all of the post
sales post the subscription commit maybe
your account Executives assumed that
someone in customer success would help
your customer get onboard supported and
successful and now that's a little more
the sales reps job with their solution
engineer to get customer onboarded and
be thinking about again the ultimate win
is customer usage not just winning the
contract so I think that for each of
these functions and as a unit the
culture changes and the mindset changes
as you adopt a consumption model and
again in terms of how does this help you
scale Revenue I'm a huge believer that
the more resources in the company the
more functions in the company that are
focused on maximizing actual customer
usage how can that be a bad thing that's
a great thing because all of a sudden
you're that much more aligned with
actual customer outcomes and last point
I'll make on this one is you know in our
case we've actually we have a hybrid
model we we maintain a subscription
model and we have consumption elements
so it's not either or kind of like the
plg and Enterprise sales it's not
doesn't have to be one or the other but
something to consider is are enough
functions in your company really rallied
around driving actual customer
consumption it can be a big unlock
all right and the fifth strategy that
I'll mention
um because it's it's very of them
while we also keep an eye on increasing
efficiency and we all know that the
landscape has changed particularly in
the last six or so months in terms of
the value placed on efficiency if you're
an early stage company and even if
you're very early in the Journey of
course you're focused on maximizing Top
Line but I'm willing to bet that your
investors are asking you to show how
you're keeping an eye on efficiency
along the way in our case we went public
last year and we're not yet a profitable
company but it's really important that
we show the market what is our path to
profitability and so how do we both
maintain the Top Line while also
increasing efficiency knowing that that
both are important to investors into the
market these days so I have a few
thoughts on this
the first is focus matters and well let
me take a step back actually before we
even get to that one of the best ways to
drive efficiency actually is to maximize
the top line I mean the steeper the the
growth curve and the Top Line the more
that you can
um uh you know the more room you have to
invest and you can actually
um you know it's a great growth kind of
gives you a lot more room when your
growth wanes then of course getting even
more efficient is harder because you
just have less to go invest with so I
want to be super clear that I'm a huge
fan of staying laser focused on how you
maximize the Top Line number one and
then number two what are ways we can get
more efficient
so one way is to stay super focused and
we spoke earlier about the importance of
having a deep understanding of who your
customer is
um who the key personas are and Who
You're Building Product for Who You're
Building messaging for and I think this
comes into play here too when I think
about Focus for driving both growth and
efficiency and we think about kind of
who those customers are I also think
about you know if you're an expanding
company if you're at this stage okay
what segments are you in are you serving
the Enterprise are you serving
mid-market are you serving startups and
depending on your scale you might want
to make some focused bets and say you
know what we're going to stay focused on
startups for now and we're not going to
get into some of these other segments
yet until we have enough growth here
that we can then use the the payoff from
that to go invest in other segments or
maybe you're being pulled into a lot of
international markets which is super
exciting but actually it can also spread
you really thin to go service those
markets effectively so maybe you can
strain yourself and you say you know
what we are only going to focus
proactively on English-speaking markets
and that way we don't have to go
translate our docs or our websites and
and things like that or hire in lots of
different countries that's another way
to apply Focus similarly you could think
about Industries but the power of
declaring that focus and of course what
does Focus mean it means you say no to
some other things and that is always the
hardest thing but the power of focus is
then you can align your bets across all
the functions in the company your
product and Edge team your marketing
team your go to market Investments your
sales head count you can put them behind
the same bets and that is super powerful
so Focus inherently applies saying no to
some other things and doing some things
that you know or there's big opportunity
and it takes a ton of discipline to say
we're not going to do it but Focus can
really pay off
the second thing I'd say is invest in a
repeatable Playbook and I can't
highlight this enough it is um it's so
valuable to have that clear Playbook as
you're onboarding definitely new Sellers
and account team members but honestly
anyone in the company how are you
enabling them with what you've already
learned from your teams who've been out
there in the early days and how can you
enable and equip them with a clear
Playbook again for who your Target
customer is who the personas are how you
position and how you lead your customers
through that Journey what does the
engagement model look like
sometimes people will ask what does that
mean I should hire an enablement leader
or team right away maybe but sometimes
enablement in building the Playbook
early on just means getting some of your
early team members in a room with a
whiteboard for a half day or a couple
days and crank something out that's
really useful for the next 10 or 20 or
100 people that you hire so codify
capture and codify kind of harvest from
your team members who are out there and
capture it in a living breathing
Playbook that you can use to onboard
your next team members
and then solve for Speed so again on
this efficiency topic a lot of times our
temptation is to go find the things that
maybe we want to cut from the model
maybe we can you know not have as many
resources around the AE and sometimes
that is the right answer by the way but
I also think that one way to increase
efficiency is to think about solving for
Speed in every process that you have
whether it's hiring a new employee to
your company or onboarding a customer or
Landing a new logo or getting to you
know getting a customer onboarded and
expanding
instrument that process and understand
how long it takes you and then figure
out how can I cut this in half how can I
hire someone in half the time how can I
get an AE ramped in half the time how
can I get a customer onboarded into the
next use case in half the time solving
for Speed can be a big unlock and
there's so many opportunities in every
function in the company and so it's a
great place to go when you're looking
for efficiency
and just a few of my my favorite metrics
sprinkled along the bottom of the slide
there but a lot of those are outputs
from from growth plus efficiency
okay so maybe this all makes logical
sense and maybe some of these things
represent a change from how you're
operating today and they might represent
um a transformation that you need to
drive on your team so how do I drive
that on my team I mean everyone's
already really busy people are really
stressed out they're working really hard
how can I drive transformation on my
team
so a few thoughts on this
and it really comes down to the why the
what and the how and let me start with
the why I do think that all of our teams
want to be they want us to respect their
intelligence and they want to understand
why and take them on the journey that
led us to the decision of why we're
making some change maybe we're saying
you know what we're introducing a new
persona or we're not going into this
Market or we're evolving to a
consumption model from a subscription
model whatever the change is take your
team on the journey help them understand
your logical reasoning for the why
and then of course every individual is
immediately going to think well can I be
successful in this new environment and
with these new expectations of me so how
can we help our team members feel
confident that they can be successful
well that comes down to thinking through
what is your enablement plan what
tooling do your teams need to be
successful against what might be some
new metrics some new things that you're
monitoring so make sure that you are
equipped to roll out the how and give
every individual confidence that they
can achieve success in this new model
and then finally the what have you been
super clear on what are the new
behaviors you're looking for what are
the metrics that you'll measure and are
your leaders equipped to teach and coach
and then of course inspect those new
behaviors and metrics how does your
operating Cadence change in my world how
does our forecast call change are we
looking at some new metrics if we've
been measuring a consumption business
based on bookings if we're saying sorry
if we've been measuring a subscription
business based on bookings and we're
moving to more of a consumption model
then you know what we need to start
forecasting consumption and how are we
going to do that on those high-stakes
forecast calls every week so a few
thoughts on leading through
transformation
and I also think you know it's the what
the why and the how but it's also it's
the heart and the head and you want to
capture hearts and Minds is you're
leading your team through transformation
and bringing them on the journey with
you
so those are my five thoughts and a
little bit on leading through change
um so in summary a few tactics to think
about in terms of being successful
scaling Revenue in 2022 and of course in
this current macro environment which
both values growth and efficiency not
just growth at all costs rethink your
understanding of the customer leverage
that to design a modern and connected
customer experience benefit from the
multiplier effect of product LED and
Enterprise sales in your business it's
an and not an or
create a consumption-based culture if
consumption is right for your business
not just a pricing strategy and then of
course keep an eye on efficiency while
you're maximizing growth building that
discipline around efficiency is a habit
it's a muscle and it's never too early
to start
and then finally bring your team along
for the journey win hearts and Minds
that'll always help them follow you and
embrace anything new that you introduce
so that's it thanks very much great to
be here great to see you all
[Music]